Adding new sidebar page about extrusions to maps sdk section (#1205)
mapbox/android-docs: src/pages/maps/overview/extrusions.md

---
title: "Extrusions"
description: "Learn about the adding and customization extrusions with the Mapbox Maps SDK for Android."
prependJs:
  - "import AndroidActivityToggle from '../../../components/context-dependent/android-activity-toggle';"
  - "import Note from '@mapbox/dr-ui/note';"
  - "import RelatedPage from '@mapbox/dr-ui/related-page';"
contentType: guide
language:
- Java
- Kotlin
---

Extrusions is the Mapbox term for 3D shapes that can be placed anywhere on the map. It can help to think of them as pillars whose bottom and top heights above the map are both defined in meters. Like many other visual aspects of a Mapbox map, the extrusions can be styled in run time and/or based on data in a dataset.

> Extrusions are often seen on the map in the form of buildings, but any type of `Polygon` shape can be extruded. The shape of building extrusions follows the building footprint shape. It's as if the 2D `Polygon` building shape on a flat map has risen, or extruded, from the map.

Author: Changed to the suggestion

Adding and styling an extrusion is done via the Maps SDK for Android's `FillExtrusionLayer`. The `FillExtrusionLayer` is initialized with a unique ID and a unique or shared source ID, similar to other Maps SDK layers. Then define the `FillExtrusionLayer` layer's properties before adding the layer to the map's `Style` object.

## Styling

The Maps SDK for Android extrusion styling options follow [the official Mapbox Style Specification](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/style-spec/layers/#fill-extrusion).

Please read the Style Specification properties to learn more about extrusion colors, opacity, pattern, coordinate offsetting, and more.

> [The Mapbox Android demo app's extrusions-related examples](android/maps/examples/#extrusions) show what's possible for styling extrusions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The Mapbox Android demo app's extrusions-related examples](/android/maps/examples/#extrusions) show what's possible for styling extrusions.
```

Author: Ahh, so that's what needed to change. Thanks. Wasn't sure from https://travis-ci.com/mapbox/android-docs/builds/147579501

![Screen Shot 2020-02-05 at 10 53 28 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4394910/73873084-c7106c00-4805-11ea-85f3-1c69adbf95f7.png)

{{
<AndroidActivityToggle
  id="basic-extrusion-setup"
	
java={`
mapboxMap.getStyle(new Style.OnStyleLoaded() {
	@Override
	public void onStyleLoaded(@NonNull Style style) {

		FillExtrusionLayer fillExtrusionLayer = new FillExtrusionLayer("extrusion-layer-id", "source-id");

		fillExtrusionLayer.setProperties(
		  fillExtrusionHeight(HEIGHT_NUMBER)
		);

		style.addLayer(fillExtrusionLayer);
	}
});
`}
	
kotlin={`
mapboxMap.getStyle {
	
	val fillExtrusionLayer = FillExtrusionLayer("extrusion-layer-id", "source-id")
	
	fillExtrusionLayer.setProperties(
		fillExtrusionHeight(HEIGHT_NUMBER)
	)
	
	it.addLayer(fillExtrusionLayer)
}
`}
/>
}}

## Light

Part of the Mapbox style spec is the concept of light. You can adjust the color, intensity, and angle at which light hits the map, as if you were adjusting the location of the Sun.

> A map's light source isn't part of [the fill extrusion layer's style specification section](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/style-spec/layers/#fill-extrusion). Light [has it's own section](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/style-spec/light/) but light options greatly affect the look of a map's 3D extrusions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A style's light property provides a _global_ light source for that entire style. Because these properties are applied across all layers, `light` is a [root property](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/style-spec/root/#light) in the Style Specification rather than a paint or layout property to be defined in a single [fill-extrusion layer](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/style-spec/layers/#fill-extrusion). 
```

{{<Note>}}

> It's usually easier to adjust a map style's light options in Mapbox Studio to find the correct values than to constantly make tweaks in your Android project over and over again to see the changes' affects on the look of extrusions. Once you find the values in Mapbox Studio that create the extrusion styling that you want, then use the same final values in your Android project's code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using Mapbox Studio to iterate on a map style's light options. Working in Mapbox Studio allows you to more quickly explore the visual impact of changes to your style's light properties compared to iterating in your Android project. Once you find the values in Mapbox Studio that create the extrusion styling that you want, then use the same final values in your Android project's code.
```

[Read more about the spherical coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_coordinate_system) to understand light's radial, azimuthal, and polar positioning.
{{</Note>}}

{{
  <RelatedPage
    url="https://docs.mapbox.com/android/maps/examples/adjust-light-location-and-color/"
    title="Light adjustment"
    contentType="example"
    description="Adjust the light's location and color to see how it affects the extrusion"
  />
}}

## Tricks

Extrusion styling is enhanced by the Maps SDK's [expressions](/android/maps/overview/expressions/) and [data-driven styling](/android/maps/overview/data-driven-styling/). Their combination can lead to fun effects and achieving the specific data visualization to match your use case.

### Relative heights

> If a dataset includes data on extrusions of different heights, the particular heights might not be large enough to make the extrusions visible at a certain zoom level. Using certain Maps SDK expressions can make all the extrusions appear much taller on the map **and** keep their relative height differences the same. This way, the extrusions can be visible at a much lower zoom level when the map camera is farther away from the map surface.

Reviewer: Reserve the word `dataset` to refer to Mapbox "datasets" (i.e. related to the Datasets API/Dataset editor).

```suggestion
If a data source includes height information for polygon features, the defined heights might not be large enough to make the extrusions visible at a certain zoom level. Using certain Maps SDK expressions can make all the extrusions appear much taller on the map **and** keep their relative height differences the same. This way, the extrusions can be visible at a much lower zoom level when the map camera is farther away from the map surface.
```

Reviewer: Is the intention here to be about showing some kind of data-driven style effect rather than reflecting the physical height of a feature (like buildings)? It's not totally clear in this explanation why you would want to alter the height property for an extruded feature that is representing something that has an actual physical size.

Author: > Is the intention here to be about showing some kind of data-driven style effect rather than reflecting the physical height of a feature (like buildings)

Yes. https://github.com/mapbox/android-docs/issues/1170#issuecomment-562272551 has screenshots from when I was playing around with extrusions and this particular trick.

> It's not totally clear in this explanation why you would want to alter the height property for an extruded feature that is representing something that has an actual physical size.

"This way, the extrusions can be visible at a much lower zoom level when the map camera is farther away from the map surface."  👈  I can't think of a specific use case, lol.

Reviewer: @langsmith maybe incorporate something like: 

>If you're using extrusions as a data visualization strategy for data that's not related to the physical height of objects in space (for example, visualizing the population in census block groups), the value of the data field might not be appropriate as an extrusion height (in meters). To make the extrusions visible at various zoom levels you can use expressions to ...

Author: Fixed

{{
<AndroidActivityToggle
  id="extrusion-height"

java={`
mapboxMap.getStyle(new Style.OnStyleLoaded() {
	@Override
	public void onStyleLoaded(@NonNull Style style) {
		
		FillExtrusionLayer fillExtrusionLayer = new FillExtrusionLayer("extrusion-layer-id", "source-id");
	
		fillExtrusionLayer.setProperties(
		  fillExtrusionColor(COLOR.RED),
		  fillExtrusionHeight(sum(literal(CONSTANT_NUMBER), get("HEIGHT_FEATURE_PROPERTY_KEY")))
		);
	
		style.addLayer(fillExtrusionLayer);
	}
});
`}

kotlin={`
mapboxMap.getStyle {
	val fillExtrusionLayer = FillExtrusionLayer("extrusion-layer-id", "source-id")
	
	fillExtrusionLayer.setProperties(
	        fillExtrusionColor(Color.RED),
	        fillExtrusionHeight(sum(literal(CONSTANT_NUMBER), get("HEIGHT_FEATURE_PROPERTY_KEY")))
	)
	
	it.addLayer(fillExtrusionLayer)
}
`}

/>
}}

{{
  <RelatedPage
    url="https://docs.mapbox.com/android/maps/examples/display-3d-building-height-based-on-vector-data/"
    title="Vector data height"
    contentType="example"
    description="Set extrusion height based on a dataset"
  />
}}

### Base vs. height

> Adjusting the difference between `fillExtrusionBase` and `fillExtrusionHeight` leads to interesting visual effects as well. If the difference is a small amount such as 3 meters, the visual effect will be a small sliver of an extrusion that appears to be floating in the air. This can be a nice yet rudimentary way to visualize flight data or other data that needs to live in three dimensional space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjusting the difference between `fillExtrusionBase` and `fillExtrusionHeight` leads to interesting visual effects as well. If the difference is a small amount such as 3 meters, the visual effect will be a small sliver of an extrusion that appears to be floating in the air. This can be a nice yet rudimentary way to visualize flight data or other data that is not connected to the flat surface of the map.
```
